In this video we learn about expressions. expressions are nothing but the formulas. the formulas that
we learn in mathematics, how to write them in program.
We will learn this. see after knowing date types and the variables this is the very first thing that you
should learn.
You should be able to perfectly write down the formula  so that it gets correct results, that is important
so for  writing any formula in the form of expression in our program.
What are the things that you should know.
Let us learn. see
We have already studied about arithmetic operators in the previous video.
So those arithmetic operators are addition subtraction multiplication division and mod.
Along with that.
I have also taken brackets here.
Now there is something called precedence of operator precedence means the priority weightage, higher weightage
age.
So that is higher or lower.
Precedence of operators.
We are not looking at all the operators in C++.
We are looking at only a few.
So I have to make them in the form of a table.
Assume that the precedence of this one is one and the precedence for multiplication division and mod
For all of them is 2 and this bracket is
3.
So these numbers the shows that brackets are having highest precedence an addition subtraction is having
lower precedence among arithmetic operators.
Know how these precedence effect, let us understand that.
So I will simply write on one formula then, I will show you, I will write the formula here
Suppose I am saying x assign with a plus b multiplied by  c minus d slash e.
This is the formula I have written.
Now in this formula which operator gets executed first.
Let us learn this so that actually depends on precedence of operator.
So how many operations I have used here addition subtraction multiplication division four operations
I have used here.
Now who is having higher precedence multiplication and division not having higher precedence.
So in this expression both are there, multiplication is also there division is also there.
Then which one will get executed first C from the left hand side it will get left to right
it will take so the first one executed is this one.
And next is this one.
So first it will multiply.
Then it will divide.
It means who will get multiplied B and C will get multiplied right then D divided by E.
So this is how they are executed.
Then after that the Lower precedence is for addition and subtraction.
they get executed.
So we have both.
Which one will get executed first.
So again left to right.
See this left to right is actually called as associativity, so the associated is with
Left to Right. we will learn about associativity some other time so left to right is the associativity.
So first this one gets executed then this one.
So this addition this will add what a with the result of b and c because already they are multiplied
already we have the result then this will subtract what 4th one, this the
whole left hand side and the right hand side.
This is already done, addition is done.
So this whole thing and then this one.
So this is how depending on the precedence the operation are performed.
Next suppose you wanted in some other way. what? you wanted
That a plus b should be done first.
Then it should be multiplied by C then it should not be written like this.
Let us see how to do that.
C Again I will write down this expression.
A plus B multiplied by C minus d slash e.
Suppose in this one I don't want b to be multiplied with c I want a plus b to be multiplied.
now in this case because the precedence of this one is Lower.
I have to increase this precedence by including in brackets so include this in bracket so that's how we
use precedence now you see who is having highest precedence in the expression.
This bracket is having.
So whatever it is there in the bracket that will get executed first.
Similarly I don't want this d to be divided by E.
I want this C minus d   to be divided by e then put it in the bracket.
Now it will be perfect, as per you want.
How the result you want you have to put them in the brackets so bracket is a very powerful tool for writing
expression.
So if you know how the precedence and you want them to be executed according to precedence it's okay.
No you want to change it then you can change it by imposing brackets.
So this is there in mathematics also.
Same thing is used here now for learning this one for practicing this one.
I have taken some formulas.
I will show how to convert  this formulas in expressions of C++ program.
then later we will be writing programs on this one also.
So let us write on expression for the formulas. let us look at the formula see the first formula is
area of triangle.
You should be knowing the formula is half into base and  height how to write this in C++ program.
If you are using this formula so that expressions should be written like this a is assignment with half
you cannot write like this.
C If I write half then division means that slash then two.
So you know this is integer, 1 and two, both are integer and 1 divided by 2  is 0.
So you cannot write like this.
This would be wrong.
So the first thing we learn then next first write base into height, so base into height where is into sign?.
In mathematics we understand that if nothing is there in between multiplication is there but in C++ program
you cannot leave it like that.
You have to write down into * (multiplication) base * height is written first then this thing if you
want to you can enclose in bracket if you want.
Otherwise no need because after that division will be done.
So this is the perfect formula base into height.
whole divided by two.
If you say no, as per the formula that is one by two I want to write down that first then write like
this right.
Point five point five then multiplied by base in to height.
So point five multiplied by Base into height.
This will be perfect.
But remember as this is written float then the result will be float.
So you must have this variable as float and here also after dividing it by 2 you may be getting float
results so you have to declare this area as float. how to convert this into program we will be learning it
but little bit idea I will give you they must have these variables in the our program a b and h.
We should be knowing what is b and h then we can use this formula to cal. a, so we will write a
program for this one afterwards in the coming videos.
Now let us move on to the next formula.
See the next formula is perimeter of a rectangle.
p is 2 into a plus b means 2 into length into breadth. so how to write down this one
I will remove this. p is a perimeter. perimeter assign 2 into l plus b, into, see in mathematics again.
We don't write into but here you must write in to lenght into breadth see if I don't give brackets.
Then what happens.
see in mathematics also we write bracket .
So here if I don't give, then what will happen?
It will be multiplied two into length and only length is multiplied by two and then B is added.
Actually the formula is l and b should be added then it should be multiplied by 2.
Or else you multiply both of them with the two.
So this is better.
So I should write down this in the bracket right.
If you write in the bracket then they are added first because who is having higher precedence, brackets are
having higher precedence or this addition will be done first.
Whatever it is then the bracket that is done first then it is multiplied by 2.
Now the next formula.
Sum of n terms.
...
That is sum of first natural no.s
that is s is equal to n into n plus 1 by 2.
how to write down this one
Let us write it sum s assign n into n plus one by two, we know very well now n plus one .
This must be in brackets right first n plus one should be done then it should be multiplied with n
then by two.
This is how we write in mathematics but in C++ program you have to use this symbol. slash to.
So does the simple one.
And here s assign n into n plus one by two.
Now the next formula nth term of A.P series that is for arithmetic progression series if you know the
first term and the common difference then you can find nth term of ap series
so that is the formula.
t=a+(n-1)d
Let us write it in the form of expression t assign a plus a plus n minus one this one inside
bracket into D.
This is the formula now coming to the next formula root of quadratic equation.
This is little lengthy formula.
Let us write it.
see fr assigned  minus B okay minus B only one root I'm taking it is plus or minus.
So we will take just plus the square root of B squared minus four AC B squared.
How do you write B squared.
So there is no symbol for square or power.
Symbol is not that in C++ but that is a function of a level.
I'll show you afterwards so I will write B squared as B into B.
so write B into B right then minus 4 into a into c.
Yes this is perfect.
Now this whole thing has to be in square root.
How do you find Square root.
see for square root
There is a header file available in C++ which is having square root function and that header file name
as Cmath.
So you can see hash include cMath  or else you can also write harsh include Math.h  whatever
one you like.
You can use it.
This is in C++.
This was there in C language so you can use the c like things in C++ also if you want you can write this
or cmath is a better option.
So that header file that library is having all the mathematical functions like Square root, log exponent
cos, sin rsin rcos rtan by various function power function various functions are available
who can use those mathematical functions in your program.
Now knowing about those functions slowly you can learn about them at once you don't have to learn all
of them so slowly as in when we are using we'll be learning about them.
But right now we want just square root  so there is a function called sqrt in short for square root
so that we have to perform up on this whole thing right.
This whole thing.
So this whole thing should be written inside the square root function.
So I'll just make a space for this.
So this was r assigned minus B plus.
This is sqrt.
This is a function.
sqrt function. so this is a function
So square root will be performed on this entire thing and the result will be added that this minus B.
Now the last thing remaining divided by two way divided by two Now the interesting thing a.
So shall I write in to a yes.
This is
because it is 2 into a
This is two into a.
This will be wrong, why, this entire thing should be divided by two right.
But if you read this I'll just highlight sqrt result will be divided by two
...
We want everything should be divided by two.
Okay put the bracket here also.
So put the bracket here also.
This is perfect.
The next one this whole thing is divided by two then multiplied by a no.
It should be divided by a also so that 2, a should be in bracket.
So these two should be multiplied and the result.
This  result should divide this entire thing.
This is perfect.
If I don't give that bracket then it will be taken as into a, a will be come this side.
So we don't want into a this a should be in the denominator only so that must be in the bracket.
Otherwise we get wrong.
this what you have to be careful.
Now we have done enough examples, how to write expression, now the same expressions we
will use them in the program.
So in the following videos will find the program on each of these formulas then one last formula.
This one that is speed that is initial speed can be calculated as final velocity square minus
initial velocity squared by two into acceleration.
So here v square and u squared is used so I can write.
V into v or u into u.
Otherwise I can use a power function.
So let us use that both the methods we will follow, first method  speed s is assigned v into v ok
v into v, minus
u into u, now one thing Do I have to put this in bracket.
No need because who is having higher precedence multiplication than multiplication that afterwards subtraction
so it will be perfect.
If you want to put it in brackets that is very good right.
So because of laziness.
People don't write brackets properly so if you write everything in brackets that is perfect but too
many brackets will make it difficult to read also that is that the reason next by 2a should be
done by 2 A.
Again you're on the same problem.
So we cannot write just 2a.
We have to write two into a. ok now we are at the same problem What is that.
This a will come in multiplication this whole thing divided by 2 into a into a  means a will come in numerator.
No this by 2 should be done on the entire thing so this must be in the bracket First of all.
And this is in denominator.
So this should also be in the brackets.
If they are not in the bracket.
Then you get wrong results.
The next one more method we have.
I told you that you can use power function so use power function pow is the function v comma
two.
This is V square minus pow function.
u ,2 .
This is a
u square then, this whole thing should be divided by two as well as with a multiplied with it.
So that should be in brackett.
So this is how you can write down the formulas.
We have seen various example formulas.
We have just seen how to write on the expression from the formula then how to use it in the program
how to build up a complete program that we will learn in following videos.
From here onwards make sure whenever you find any formula converted it into C++ expression.
So this needs a little practice but this needs little practice.
Don't think that you have learned once.
Now you can do it every time.
No.
where ever you find formula write it in C++.
OK now next video we will write on the programs using these formulas.
So for each I would write a program and show you then we will learn how to convert these things into
a complete program.
So that's all in this video.